README.md, before:

<div align="center">

<img width="full" alt="Superset" src="apps/marketing/public/images/readme-hero.png" />

### The Terminal for Coding Agents

[![GitHub stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/superset-sh/superset?style=flat&logo=github)](https://github.com/superset-sh/superset/stargazers)
[![GitHub release](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/superset-sh/superset?style=flat&logo=github)](https://github.com/superset-sh/superset/releases)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/superset-sh/superset?style=flat)](LICENSE.md)
[![Twitter](https://img.shields.io/badge/@superset__sh-555?logo=x)](https://x.com/superset_sh)
[![Discord](https://img.shields.io/badge/Discord-555?logo=discord)](https://discord.gg/cZeD9WYcV7)

<br />

[**Download for macOS**](https://github.com/superset-sh/superset/releases/latest) &nbsp;&bull;&nbsp; [Documentation](https://docs.superset.sh) &nbsp;&bull;&nbsp; [Changelog](https://github.com/superset-sh/superset/releases) &nbsp;&bull;&nbsp; [Discord](https://discord.gg/cZeD9WYcV7)

<br />


</div>

## Why Superset?

Superset is a turbocharged terminal that allows you to run any CLI coding agents along with the tools to 10x your development workflow. 

- **Run multiple agents simultaneously** without context switching overhead
- **Isolate each task** in its own git worktree so agents don't interfere with each other
- **Monitor all your agents** from one place and get notified when they need attention
- **Review changes quickly** with built-in diff viewer and editor

Wait less, ship more.

## Features

| Feature | Description |
|:--------|:------------|
| **Parallel Execution** | Run 10+ coding agents simultaneously on your machine |
| **Worktree Isolation** | Each task gets its own branch and working directory |
| **Agent Monitoring** | Track agent status and get notified when changes are ready |
| **Built-in Diff Viewer** | Inspect and edit agent changes without leaving the app |
| **Workspace Presets** | Automate env setup, dependency installation, and more |
| **Universal Compatibility** | Works with any CLI agent that runs in a terminal |
| **Quick Context Switching** | Jump between tasks as they need your attention |
| **IDE Integration** | Open any workspace in your favorite editor with one click |

## Supported Agents

Superset works with any CLI-based coding agent, including:

| Agent | Status |
|:------|:-------|
| [Claude Code](https://github.com/anthropics/claude-code) | Fully supported |
| [OpenAI Codex CLI](https://github.com/openai/codex) | Fully supported |
| [Cursor Agent](https://docs.cursor.com/agent) | Fully supported |
| [Gemini CLI](https://github.com/google-gemini/gemini-cli) | Fully supported |
| [GitHub Copilot](https://github.com/features/copilot) | Fully supported |
| [OpenCode](https://github.com/opencode-ai/opencode) | Fully supported |
| Any CLI agent | Will work |

If it runs in a terminal, it runs on Superset

## Requirements

| Requirement | Details |
|:------------|:--------|
| **OS** | macOS (Windows/Linux untested) |
| **Runtime** | [Bun](https://bun.sh/) v1.0+ |
| **Version Control** | Git 2.20+ |
| **GitHub CLI** | [gh](https://cli.github.com/) |
| **Caddy** | [caddy](https://caddyserver.com/docs/install) (for dev server) |

## Getting Started

### Quick Start (Pre-built)

**[Download Superset for macOS](https://github.com/superset-sh/superset/releases/latest)**

### Build from Source

<details>
<summary>Click to expand build instructions</summary>

**1. Clone the repository**

```bash
git clone https://github.com/superset-sh/superset.git
cd superset
```

**2. Set up environment variables** (choose one):

Option A: Full setup
```bash
cp .env.example .env
# Edit .env and fill in the values
```

Option B: Skip env validation (for quick local testing)
```bash
cp .env.example .env
echo 'SKIP_ENV_VALIDATION=1' >> .env
```

**3. Set up Caddy** (reverse proxy for Electric SQL streams):

```bash
# Install caddy: brew install caddy (macOS) or see https://caddyserver.com/docs/install
cp Caddyfile.example Caddyfile
```

**4. Install dependencies and run**

```bash
bun install
bun run dev
```

**5. Build the desktop app**

```bash
bun run build
open apps/desktop/release
```

</details>

## Keyboard Shortcuts

All shortcuts are customizable via **Settings > Keyboard Shortcuts** (`⌘/`). See [full documentation](https://docs.superset.sh/keyboard-shortcuts).

### Workspace Navigation

| Shortcut | Action |
|:---------|:-------|
| `⌘1-9` | Switch to workspace 1-9 |
| `⌘⌥↑/↓` | Previous/next workspace |
| `⌘N` | New workspace |
| `⌘⇧N` | Quick create workspace |
| `⌘⇧O` | Open project |

### Terminal

| Shortcut | Action |
|:---------|:-------|
| `⌘T` | New tab |
| `⌘W` | Close pane/terminal |
| `⌘D` | Split right |
| `⌘⇧D` | Split down |
| `⌘K` | Clear terminal |
| `⌘F` | Find in terminal |
| `⌘⌥←/→` | Previous/next tab |
| `Ctrl+1-9` | Open preset 1-9 |

### Layout

| Shortcut | Action |
|:---------|:-------|
| `⌘B` | Toggle workspaces sidebar |
| `⌘L` | Toggle changes panel |
| `⌘O` | Open in external app |
| `⌘⇧C` | Copy path |

## Configuration

Configure workspace setup and teardown in `.superset/config.json`. See [full documentation](https://docs.superset.sh/setup-teardown-scripts).

```json
{
  "setup": ["./.superset/setup.sh"],
  "teardown": ["./.superset/teardown.sh"]
}
```

| Option | Type | Description |
|:-------|:-----|:------------|
| `setup` | `string[]` | Commands to run when creating a workspace |
| `teardown` | `string[]` | Commands to run when deleting a workspace |

### Example setup script

```bash
#!/bin/bash
# .superset/setup.sh

# Copy environment variables
cp ../.env .env

# Install dependencies
bun install

# Run any other setup tasks
echo "Workspace ready!"
```

Scripts have access to environment variables:
- `SUPERSET_WORKSPACE_NAME` — Name of the workspace
- `SUPERSET_ROOT_PATH` — Path to the main repository

## Tech Stack

<p>
  <a href="https://www.electronjs.org/"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Electron-191970?logo=Electron&logoColor=white" alt="Electron" /></a>
  <a href="https://reactjs.org/"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/React-%2320232a.svg?logo=react&logoColor=%2361DAFB" alt="React" /></a>
  <a href="https://tailwindcss.com/"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Tailwindcss-%2338B2AC.svg?logo=tailwind-css&logoColor=white" alt="TailwindCSS" /></a>
  <a href="https://bun.sh/"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Bun-000000?logo=bun&logoColor=white" alt="Bun" /></a>
  <a href="https://turbo.build/"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Turborepo-EF4444?logo=turborepo&logoColor=white" alt="Turborepo" /></a>
  <a href="https://vitejs.dev/"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Vite-%23646CFF.svg?logo=vite&logoColor=white" alt="Vite" /></a>
  <a href="https://biomejs.dev/"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Biome-339AF0?logo=biome&logoColor=white" alt="Biome" /></a>
  <a href="https://orm.drizzle.team/"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Drizzle%20ORM-FFE873?logo=drizzle&logoColor=black" alt="Drizzle ORM" /></a>
  <a href="https://neon.tech/"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Neon-00E9CA?logo=neon&logoColor=white" alt="Neon" /></a>
  <a href="https://trpc.io/"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/tRPC-2596BE?logo=trpc&logoColor=white" alt="tRPC" /></a>
</p>

## Contributing

We welcome contributions! If you have a suggestion that would make Superset better:

1. Fork the repository
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add amazing feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/amazing-feature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

You can also [open issues](https://github.com/superset-sh/superset/issues) for bugs or feature requests.

See [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for detailed instructions and code of conduct.

<a href="https://github.com/superset-sh/superset/graphs/contributors">
  <img src="https://contrib.rocks/image?repo=superset-sh/superset" />
</a>

## Community

Join the Superset community to get help, share feedback, and connect with other users:

- **[Discord](https://discord.gg/cZeD9WYcV7)** — Chat with the team and community
- **[Twitter](https://x.com/superset_sh)** — Follow for updates and announcements
- **[GitHub Issues](https://github.com/superset-sh/superset/issues)** — Report bugs and request features
- **[GitHub Discussions](https://github.com/superset-sh/superset/discussions)** — Ask questions and share ideas

### Team

[![Avi Twitter](https://img.shields.io/badge/Avi-@avimakesrobots-555?logo=x)](https://x.com/avimakesrobots)
[![Kiet Twitter](https://img.shields.io/badge/Kiet-@flyakiet-555?logo=x)](https://x.com/flyakiet)
[![Satya Twitter](https://img.shields.io/badge/Satya-@saddle__paddle-555?logo=x)](https://x.com/saddle_paddle)

## License

Distributed under the Apache 2.0 License. See [LICENSE.md](LICENSE.md) for more information.

Commit message:

Use Superset mastracode fork bundle and document workflow (#1856)
* Use Superset mastracode fork bundle and document workflow

* Document mastra fork worktree path and setup

* Use mastra

* docs(chat-mastra): remove stale deny-filter references

* refactor(chat-mastra): remove custom runtime tool injection plumbing

* refactor(chat-mastra): type guard runtime agent_end events

* chore(chat): address PR feedback on auth method and test isolation

* fix(typecheck): add explicit typing in mastra chat message paths

* Lint

README.md, after:

<div align="center">

<img width="full" alt="Superset" src="apps/marketing/public/images/readme-hero.png" />

### The Terminal for Coding Agents

[![GitHub stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/superset-sh/superset?style=flat&logo=github)](https://github.com/superset-sh/superset/stargazers)
[![GitHub release](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/superset-sh/superset?style=flat&logo=github)](https://github.com/superset-sh/superset/releases)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/superset-sh/superset?style=flat)](LICENSE.md)
[![Twitter](https://img.shields.io/badge/@superset__sh-555?logo=x)](https://x.com/superset_sh)
[![Discord](https://img.shields.io/badge/Discord-555?logo=discord)](https://discord.gg/cZeD9WYcV7)

<br />

[**Download for macOS**](https://github.com/superset-sh/superset/releases/latest) &nbsp;&bull;&nbsp; [Documentation](https://docs.superset.sh) &nbsp;&bull;&nbsp; [Changelog](https://github.com/superset-sh/superset/releases) &nbsp;&bull;&nbsp; [Discord](https://discord.gg/cZeD9WYcV7)

<br />


</div>

## Why Superset?

Superset is a turbocharged terminal that allows you to run any CLI coding agents along with the tools to 10x your development workflow. 

- **Run multiple agents simultaneously** without context switching overhead
- **Isolate each task** in its own git worktree so agents don't interfere with each other
- **Monitor all your agents** from one place and get notified when they need attention
- **Review changes quickly** with built-in diff viewer and editor

Wait less, ship more.

## Features

| Feature | Description |
|:--------|:------------|
| **Parallel Execution** | Run 10+ coding agents simultaneously on your machine |
| **Worktree Isolation** | Each task gets its own branch and working directory |
| **Agent Monitoring** | Track agent status and get notified when changes are ready |
| **Built-in Diff Viewer** | Inspect and edit agent changes without leaving the app |
| **Workspace Presets** | Automate env setup, dependency installation, and more |
| **Universal Compatibility** | Works with any CLI agent that runs in a terminal |
| **Quick Context Switching** | Jump between tasks as they need your attention |
| **IDE Integration** | Open any workspace in your favorite editor with one click |

## Supported Agents

Superset works with any CLI-based coding agent, including:

| Agent | Status |
|:------|:-------|
| [Claude Code](https://github.com/anthropics/claude-code) | Fully supported |
| [OpenAI Codex CLI](https://github.com/openai/codex) | Fully supported |
| [Cursor Agent](https://docs.cursor.com/agent) | Fully supported |
| [Gemini CLI](https://github.com/google-gemini/gemini-cli) | Fully supported |
| [GitHub Copilot](https://github.com/features/copilot) | Fully supported |
| [OpenCode](https://github.com/opencode-ai/opencode) | Fully supported |
| Any CLI agent | Will work |

If it runs in a terminal, it runs on Superset

## Requirements

| Requirement | Details |
|:------------|:--------|
| **OS** | macOS (Windows/Linux untested) |
| **Runtime** | [Bun](https://bun.sh/) v1.0+ |
| **Version Control** | Git 2.20+ |
| **GitHub CLI** | [gh](https://cli.github.com/) |
| **Caddy** | [caddy](https://caddyserver.com/docs/install) (for dev server) |

## Getting Started

### Quick Start (Pre-built)

**[Download Superset for macOS](https://github.com/superset-sh/superset/releases/latest)**

### Build from Source

<details>
<summary>Click to expand build instructions</summary>

**1. Clone the repository**

```bash
git clone https://github.com/superset-sh/superset.git
cd superset
```

**2. Set up environment variables** (choose one):

Option A: Full setup
```bash
cp .env.example .env
# Edit .env and fill in the values
```

Option B: Skip env validation (for quick local testing)
```bash
cp .env.example .env
echo 'SKIP_ENV_VALIDATION=1' >> .env
```

**3. Set up Caddy** (reverse proxy for Electric SQL streams):

```bash
# Install caddy: brew install caddy (macOS) or see https://caddyserver.com/docs/install
cp Caddyfile.example Caddyfile
```

**4. Install dependencies and run**

```bash
bun install
bun run dev
```

**5. Build the desktop app**

```bash
bun run build
open apps/desktop/release
```

</details>

## Keyboard Shortcuts

All shortcuts are customizable via **Settings > Keyboard Shortcuts** (`⌘/`). See [full documentation](https://docs.superset.sh/keyboard-shortcuts).

### Workspace Navigation

| Shortcut | Action |
|:---------|:-------|
| `⌘1-9` | Switch to workspace 1-9 |
| `⌘⌥↑/↓` | Previous/next workspace |
| `⌘N` | New workspace |
| `⌘⇧N` | Quick create workspace |
| `⌘⇧O` | Open project |

### Terminal

| Shortcut | Action |
|:---------|:-------|
| `⌘T` | New tab |
| `⌘W` | Close pane/terminal |
| `⌘D` | Split right |
| `⌘⇧D` | Split down |
| `⌘K` | Clear terminal |
| `⌘F` | Find in terminal |
| `⌘⌥←/→` | Previous/next tab |
| `Ctrl+1-9` | Open preset 1-9 |

### Layout

| Shortcut | Action |
|:---------|:-------|
| `⌘B` | Toggle workspaces sidebar |
| `⌘L` | Toggle changes panel |
| `⌘O` | Open in external app |
| `⌘⇧C` | Copy path |

## Configuration

Configure workspace setup and teardown in `.superset/config.json`. See [full documentation](https://docs.superset.sh/setup-teardown-scripts).

```json
{
  "setup": ["./.superset/setup.sh"],
  "teardown": ["./.superset/teardown.sh"]
}
```

| Option | Type | Description |
|:-------|:-----|:------------|
| `setup` | `string[]` | Commands to run when creating a workspace |
| `teardown` | `string[]` | Commands to run when deleting a workspace |

### Example setup script

```bash
#!/bin/bash
# .superset/setup.sh

# Copy environment variables
cp ../.env .env

# Install dependencies
bun install

# Run any other setup tasks
echo "Workspace ready!"
```

Scripts have access to environment variables:
- `SUPERSET_WORKSPACE_NAME` — Name of the workspace
- `SUPERSET_ROOT_PATH` — Path to the main repository

## Internal Dependency Overrides

For the internal `mastracode` fork/bundle workflow used by this repo, see [docs/mastracode-fork-workflow.md](docs/mastracode-fork-workflow.md).

## Tech Stack

<p>
  <a href="https://www.electronjs.org/"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Electron-191970?logo=Electron&logoColor=white" alt="Electron" /></a>
  <a href="https://reactjs.org/"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/React-%2320232a.svg?logo=react&logoColor=%2361DAFB" alt="React" /></a>
  <a href="https://tailwindcss.com/"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Tailwindcss-%2338B2AC.svg?logo=tailwind-css&logoColor=white" alt="TailwindCSS" /></a>
  <a href="https://bun.sh/"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Bun-000000?logo=bun&logoColor=white" alt="Bun" /></a>
  <a href="https://turbo.build/"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Turborepo-EF4444?logo=turborepo&logoColor=white" alt="Turborepo" /></a>
  <a href="https://vitejs.dev/"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Vite-%23646CFF.svg?logo=vite&logoColor=white" alt="Vite" /></a>
  <a href="https://biomejs.dev/"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Biome-339AF0?logo=biome&logoColor=white" alt="Biome" /></a>
  <a href="https://orm.drizzle.team/"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Drizzle%20ORM-FFE873?logo=drizzle&logoColor=black" alt="Drizzle ORM" /></a>
  <a href="https://neon.tech/"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Neon-00E9CA?logo=neon&logoColor=white" alt="Neon" /></a>
  <a href="https://trpc.io/"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/tRPC-2596BE?logo=trpc&logoColor=white" alt="tRPC" /></a>
</p>

## Contributing

We welcome contributions! If you have a suggestion that would make Superset better:

1. Fork the repository
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add amazing feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/amazing-feature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

You can also [open issues](https://github.com/superset-sh/superset/issues) for bugs or feature requests.

See [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for detailed instructions and code of conduct.

<a href="https://github.com/superset-sh/superset/graphs/contributors">
  <img src="https://contrib.rocks/image?repo=superset-sh/superset" />
</a>

## Community

Join the Superset community to get help, share feedback, and connect with other users:

- **[Discord](https://discord.gg/cZeD9WYcV7)** — Chat with the team and community
- **[Twitter](https://x.com/superset_sh)** — Follow for updates and announcements
- **[GitHub Issues](https://github.com/superset-sh/superset/issues)** — Report bugs and request features
- **[GitHub Discussions](https://github.com/superset-sh/superset/discussions)** — Ask questions and share ideas

### Team

[![Avi Twitter](https://img.shields.io/badge/Avi-@avimakesrobots-555?logo=x)](https://x.com/avimakesrobots)
[![Kiet Twitter](https://img.shields.io/badge/Kiet-@flyakiet-555?logo=x)](https://x.com/flyakiet)
[![Satya Twitter](https://img.shields.io/badge/Satya-@saddle__paddle-555?logo=x)](https://x.com/saddle_paddle)

## License

Distributed under the Apache 2.0 License. See [LICENSE.md](LICENSE.md) for more information.
