apps/marketing/content/blog/terminal-daemon-deep-dive.mdx, before:

---
title: "The Terminal That (Almost) Never Dies: Building a Persistent Terminal Daemon for Electron"
description: "How we built a process-isolated terminal host that survives app restarts, handles backpressure gracefully, and enables cold restore from disk."
author: avi
date: 2026-01-26
category: Engineering
relatedSlugs:
  - git-worktrees-history-deep-dive
  - how-to-get-hit
---

One of the slickest features of Superset is how our terminal survives app restarts. This is a deep dive on how we built it. Huge credits to [Andreas Asprou](https://x.com/andyasprou) who spearheaded this entire effort.

---

When you're building an integrated terminal for Superset, we ran into an inconvenient issue: **terminals are ephemeral processes**. This is inconvenient for many reasons. We like to update a lot. Losing progress across 10 worktrees everytime you update is a big deterrent for updating. Or if the app crashes, you lose all your processes.

Using on Tmux as an existence proof, we knew ephemeral terminals were possible.  

## The Problem: Electron Terminals Are Fragile

In a usual Electron + node-pty setup, your terminal lifecycle looks like this:

```
App starts → spawn PTY → user runs commands → app closes → PTY dies
```

In this workflow, the PTY is spawned in the main Node process of the app. This process is killed when the app closes, killing its child process as well. 

## The Tempting Solution: Just Use tmux

In our first iteration of the solve, we used tmux. It's battle-tested, handles persistence natively, and has a relatively easy interface.

Our workflow with tmux became:

```bash
# Spawn session
tmux new-session -d -s "superset-pane-123"

# Attach from Electron
tmux attach-session -t "superset-pane-123"

# Session survives app restart ✓
```

We also used tmux with headless to make it feel native in xterm.

** Why this sucks actually **

1. An extra dependencies. Now on top of installing the app, users will have to install tmux. 
2. Not cross platform. Tmux does not work for windows. We'd have to build another equivalent integration.
3. xterm incompatibility. As a terminal simulator itself, tmux takes over the scroll bar, selection, hotkeys, and the likes. This hijack inside of xterm makes it feel extremely clunky.

We needed another way

## Architecture: A detachable Daemon

Our solution splits terminal management across three process layers:

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                     ELECTRON MAIN PROCESS                       │
│  • tRPC router for renderer IPC                                 │
│  • DaemonTerminalManager (client)                               │
│  • History persistence to disk                                  │
│  • Workspace/worktree metadata                                  │
└──────────────────────────┬──────────────────────────────────────┘
                           │ Unix Domain Socket
                           │ (NDJSON protocol)
┌──────────────────────────▼──────────────────────────────────────┐
│                   TERMINAL HOST DAEMON                          │
│  • Long-running Node.js process                                 │
│  • Owns all PTY sessions                                        │
│  • Headless xterm emulator per session                          │
│  • Broadcasts data/exit events to clients                       │
└──────────────────────────┬──────────────────────────────────────┘
                           │ Binary framed protocol
                           │ (stdin/stdout pipes)
┌──────────────────────────▼──────────────────────────────────────┐
│                  PTY SUBPROCESS (per session)                   │
│  • Isolated process per terminal                                │
│  • Owns the actual node-pty instance                            │
│  • Handles backpressure independently                           │
│  • 128KB batched output, 32ms flush interval                    │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

With this architecture, the Electron app becomes just a *client* of the terminal daemon. It can:

- Restart the app → Reconnect to running sessions
- Open multiple windows → All attach to the same daemon
- Crash and recover → Cold restore from disk history

### Spawning the Daemon

The daemon is a Node.js process spawned with a clever Electron trick:

```typescript
const daemon = spawn(process.execPath, [daemonScript], {
  env: {
    ...process.env,
    ELECTRON_RUN_AS_NODE: "1",  // Run as plain Node.js
  },
  detached: true,
  stdio: "ignore",
});
daemon.unref();  // Don't wait for daemon to exit
```

Setting `ELECTRON_RUN_AS_NODE=1` tells Electron to act as a regular Node.js runtime, perfect for a background service that doesn't need Chromium.

## The Protocol: NDJSON Over Unix Sockets

Communication between the main process and daemon uses newline-delimited JSON over Unix domain sockets:

```typescript
// Request from main process
{"id":"req-abc123","type":"createOrAttach","payload":{"sessionId":"pane-1","cols":80,"rows":24}}

// Response from daemon
{"id":"req-abc123","ok":true,"payload":{"isNew":true,"snapshot":{...},"pid":12345}}

// Event pushed to clients (stream socket)
{"type":"data","sessionId":"pane-1","data":"$ npm install\r\n"}
```

**Why Unix sockets?** They're fast (no TCP overhead), secure (file permissions), and support backpressure natively through kernel buffers.

### The Two-Socket Split

Our first protocol version used a single socket for everything. This caused a nasty problem: **head-of-line blocking**.

When a terminal produces output faster than the socket can drain, the kernel buffer fills up. Every `socket.write()` for data events would block, queuing behind them any RPC responses. The result? A user opens a new terminal, but `createOrAttach` times out because the response is stuck behind megabytes of `cat bigfile.log` output.

Protocol v2 splits communication:

```
Main Process                          Daemon
     │                                   │
     │◄────── Control Socket ──────────►│  RPC only (low latency)
     │        request/response           │
     │                                   │
     │◄────── Stream Socket ───────────►│  Events only (can backpressure)
     │        data, exit, errors         │
```

Now the stream socket can back up independently while RPC stays responsive.

## Session Lifecycle: Create, Attach, Survive, Restore

A session goes through well-defined states:

```
CREATED ──► ALIVE ──► (clients attach/detach) ──► TERMINATING ──► EXIT
```

The magic is in **attachment semantics**:

```typescript
async createOrAttach(params: CreateSessionParams) {
  // 1. Already in daemon? Just attach.
  if (daemon.hasSession(params.sessionId)) {
    return daemon.attach(params.sessionId);
  }

  // 2. Not in daemon, but history on disk? Cold restore.
  const metadata = await historyReader.readMetadata(params.sessionId);
  if (metadata && !metadata.endedAt) {
    // Unclean shutdown detected!
    return {
      isColdRestore: true,
      scrollback: await historyReader.readScrollback(),
      previousCwd: metadata.cwd,
    };
  }

  // 3. Truly new session
  return daemon.createSession(params);
}
```

### Cold Restore: Recovering from Daemon crashes

When the daemon dies (machine reboot, crash, kill -9), sessions are lost. But we still have disk history:

```
~/.superset/terminal-sessions/
└── workspace-abc/
    └── pane-123/
        ├── meta.json        # {"startedAt": ..., "cwd": "/project"}
        └── scrollback.txt   # Full terminal output
```

On next app launch, we detect unclean shutdown (no `endedAt` in metadata) and offer cold restore:

```typescript
// Session restored - scrollback shown but read-only
// User sees: "Session Restored - Press Enter to start new shell"
// Old scrollback preserved, new shell spawns in same directory
```

This gives users the best of both worlds: they see what happened before the crash, and can kinda where they left off.

## Backpressure: The Hidden Challenge

Terminals can produce output *fast*. A simple `cat /dev/urandom | base64` will flood any buffer you throw at it. Without careful backpressure handling, you get:

- Memory exhaustion (unbounded queues)
- UI freezes (blocked event loops)
- Lost data (dropped writes)

We implement **multi-level backpressure** from PTY to UI:

```
PTY stdout
    │
    ▼ (if daemon buffer full, pause subprocess reads)
PTY Subprocess internal buffer (8MB high watermark, 64MB hard limit)
    │
    ▼ (if session buffer full, pause subprocess stdout)
Daemon session buffer
    │
    ▼ (if client socket full, pause session output)
Main process stream socket
    │
    ▼ (if renderer can't keep up, events queue in main)
Renderer xterm.js
```

The PTY subprocess batches output aggressively:

```typescript
// Collect output for up to 32ms or 128KB, whichever comes first
const FLUSH_INTERVAL_MS = 32;
const MAX_BATCH_SIZE = 128 * 1024;

let batch = "";
let flushTimeout: NodeJS.Timeout | null = null;

pty.onData((data) => {
  batch += data;

  if (batch.length >= MAX_BATCH_SIZE) {
    flush();
  } else if (!flushTimeout) {
    flushTimeout = setTimeout(flush, FLUSH_INTERVAL_MS);
  }
});
```

This avoids the O(n²) string concatenation problem while maintaining ~30fps visual updates.

## The Headless Emulator: State Without a Screen

Each daemon session runs a headless xterm.js emulator. This might seem redundant—why emulate if there's no screen?

The emulator gives us:

1. **Accurate snapshots**: When a new client attaches, we serialize the *current screen state*, not just raw scrollback. The user sees exactly what was on screen, cursor position included.

2. **Terminal mode tracking**: Application mode, bracketed paste, mouse tracking—all parsed and tracked so reconnecting clients get correct state.

3. **CWD detection**: By parsing OSC escape sequences, we know the shell's current directory even when the session was created hours ago.

```typescript
// On attach, serialize current state
const snapshot = {
  snapshotAnsi: emulator.serialize(),        // Screen content as ANSI
  rehydrateSequences: emulator.getRehydrateSequences(),  // Mode restore
  cwd: emulator.getCwd(),                    // Parsed from OSC 7
  modes: emulator.getModes(),                // Cursor visible, etc.
  cols: emulator.cols,
  rows: emulator.rows,
};
```

## Lessons Learned

### 1. Protocol Versioning from Day One

When we introduced the two-socket split, existing daemons couldn't speak the new protocol. We handle this gracefully:

```typescript
// Client detects version mismatch
if (response.protocolVersion !== EXPECTED_VERSION) {
  await shutdownStaleDaemon();
  await startNewDaemon();
  return retry();
}
```

Always include version negotiation in your protocols.

### 2. React StrictMode Double-Mounts Are Real

React 18's StrictMode double-mounts components in development. Our terminal component would:

1. Mount → `createOrAttach()` → receive cold restore
2. Unmount (StrictMode cleanup)
3. Mount again → `createOrAttach()` → ???

If we re-read from disk, the cold restore flag might be gone (we wrote `endedAt`). Solution: **sticky cache**:

```typescript
// Cache cold restore until explicitly acknowledged
private coldRestoreInfo = new Map<string, ColdRestoreData>();

createOrAttach(paneId) {
  if (this.coldRestoreInfo.has(paneId)) {
    return this.coldRestoreInfo.get(paneId);  // Return cached
  }
  // ... actual logic
}

ackColdRestore(paneId) {
  this.coldRestoreInfo.delete(paneId);  // User acknowledged, clear cache
}
```

### 3. Don't Kill on Disconnect

When the Electron app closes, we *don't* kill daemon sessions:

```typescript
async cleanup() {
  // Close history writers (marks clean shutdown)
  for (const writer of this.historyWriters.values()) {
    await writer.close();
  }

  // Disconnect from daemon, but DON'T send kill
  this.disposeClient();

  // Sessions keep running for next app launch
}
```

This is the whole point of the daemon architecture. The default should be persistence, not cleanup.

### 4. Concurrency Limits Prevent Spawn Storms

Opening a workspace with 10 terminal panes would previously spawn 10 sessions simultaneously, overwhelming the daemon. We added a semaphore with priority:

```typescript
// Max 3 concurrent createOrAttach operations
private limiter = new PrioritySemaphore(3);

// Focused pane gets priority 0, background panes get 1
const priority = isFocusedPane ? 0 : 1;
await this.limiter.acquire(priority);
```

Users see their active terminal first, background tabs hydrate gradually.

## The Future: Cloud Backends

The abstraction boundary we've built isn't just about local persistence. The `TerminalRuntime` interface is provider-neutral:

```typescript
interface TerminalRuntime {
  capabilities: {
    persistent: boolean;
    coldRestore: boolean;
  };
  createOrAttach(params: CreateSessionParams): Promise<AttachResult>;
  write(sessionId: string, data: string): Promise<void>;
  // ...
}
```

Today, `LocalTerminalRuntime` wraps our daemon. Tomorrow, `CloudTerminalRuntime` could wrap SSH connections or remote tmux sessions—same interface, different backend. The renderer doesn't need to know where the terminal lives.

---

*Want to dive deeper? Check out the [Superset desktop source](https://github.com/superset-sh/superset) for the full implementation.*

Commit message:

feat(marketing): improve GEO strategy with structured SEO metadata
Add keywords, FAQ schema, internal cross-linking, and breadcrumb
structured data across all marketing content to improve AI search
visibility for queries like "Cursor alternatives" and "best AI
coding tools 2026".

- Add keywords (10 terms) and FAQ (3-5 Q&A pairs) to 6 blog posts
- Add expanded keywords, FAQ, and Related Comparisons sections to all 10 compare pages
- Add BreadcrumbJsonLd and FAQPageJsonLd to compare detail page
- Add faq field to ComparisonPage type and parser
- Add keywords to compare page meta tags
- Fix roadmap-to-100-agents missing relatedSlugs, image, and description

apps/marketing/content/blog/terminal-daemon-deep-dive.mdx, after:

---
title: "The Terminal That (Almost) Never Dies: Building a Persistent Terminal Daemon for Electron"
description: "How we built a process-isolated terminal host that survives app restarts, handles backpressure gracefully, and enables cold restore from disk."
author: avi
date: 2026-01-26
category: Engineering
relatedSlugs:
  - git-worktrees-history-deep-dive
  - working-with-worktrees-in-superset
  - roadmap-to-100-agents
keywords:
  - persistent terminal electron
  - terminal daemon architecture
  - electron terminal session persistence
  - node-pty daemon
  - unix domain socket terminal
  - terminal backpressure handling
  - xterm.js headless emulator
  - cold restore terminal
  - superset terminal architecture
  - electron app terminal
faq:
  - question: "How does Superset's terminal survive app restarts?"
    answer: "Superset runs a detached Node.js daemon process that owns all PTY sessions. The Electron app connects as a client over Unix domain sockets. When the app restarts, it reconnects to the still-running daemon and reattaches to existing sessions."
  - question: "What happens if the terminal daemon crashes?"
    answer: "Superset implements cold restore — terminal scrollback and metadata are persisted to disk. On next launch, it detects unclean shutdown, shows the previous scrollback as read-only, and spawns a new shell in the same directory."
  - question: "Why didn't Superset use tmux for terminal persistence?"
    answer: "Tmux has three issues: (1) it's an extra dependency users must install, (2) it doesn't work on Windows, and (3) tmux hijacks scrollbar, selection, and hotkeys inside xterm.js, making the experience clunky. A custom daemon avoids all three problems."
---

One of the slickest features of Superset is how our terminal survives app restarts. This is a deep dive on how we built it. Huge credits to [Andreas Asprou](https://x.com/andyasprou) who spearheaded this entire effort.

---

When you're building an integrated terminal for Superset, we ran into an inconvenient issue: **terminals are ephemeral processes**. This is inconvenient for many reasons. We like to update a lot. Losing progress across 10 worktrees everytime you update is a big deterrent for updating. Or if the app crashes, you lose all your processes.

Using on Tmux as an existence proof, we knew ephemeral terminals were possible.  

## The Problem: Electron Terminals Are Fragile

In a usual Electron + node-pty setup, your terminal lifecycle looks like this:

```
App starts → spawn PTY → user runs commands → app closes → PTY dies
```

In this workflow, the PTY is spawned in the main Node process of the app. This process is killed when the app closes, killing its child process as well. 

## The Tempting Solution: Just Use tmux

In our first iteration of the solve, we used tmux. It's battle-tested, handles persistence natively, and has a relatively easy interface.

Our workflow with tmux became:

```bash
# Spawn session
tmux new-session -d -s "superset-pane-123"

# Attach from Electron
tmux attach-session -t "superset-pane-123"

# Session survives app restart ✓
```

We also used tmux with headless to make it feel native in xterm.

** Why this sucks actually **

1. An extra dependencies. Now on top of installing the app, users will have to install tmux. 
2. Not cross platform. Tmux does not work for windows. We'd have to build another equivalent integration.
3. xterm incompatibility. As a terminal simulator itself, tmux takes over the scroll bar, selection, hotkeys, and the likes. This hijack inside of xterm makes it feel extremely clunky.

We needed another way

## Architecture: A detachable Daemon

Our solution splits terminal management across three process layers:

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                     ELECTRON MAIN PROCESS                       │
│  • tRPC router for renderer IPC                                 │
│  • DaemonTerminalManager (client)                               │
│  • History persistence to disk                                  │
│  • Workspace/worktree metadata                                  │
└──────────────────────────┬──────────────────────────────────────┘
                           │ Unix Domain Socket
                           │ (NDJSON protocol)
┌──────────────────────────▼──────────────────────────────────────┐
│                   TERMINAL HOST DAEMON                          │
│  • Long-running Node.js process                                 │
│  • Owns all PTY sessions                                        │
│  • Headless xterm emulator per session                          │
│  • Broadcasts data/exit events to clients                       │
└──────────────────────────┬──────────────────────────────────────┘
                           │ Binary framed protocol
                           │ (stdin/stdout pipes)
┌──────────────────────────▼──────────────────────────────────────┐
│                  PTY SUBPROCESS (per session)                   │
│  • Isolated process per terminal                                │
│  • Owns the actual node-pty instance                            │
│  • Handles backpressure independently                           │
│  • 128KB batched output, 32ms flush interval                    │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

With this architecture, the Electron app becomes just a *client* of the terminal daemon. It can:

- Restart the app → Reconnect to running sessions
- Open multiple windows → All attach to the same daemon
- Crash and recover → Cold restore from disk history

### Spawning the Daemon

The daemon is a Node.js process spawned with a clever Electron trick:

```typescript
const daemon = spawn(process.execPath, [daemonScript], {
  env: {
    ...process.env,
    ELECTRON_RUN_AS_NODE: "1",  // Run as plain Node.js
  },
  detached: true,
  stdio: "ignore",
});
daemon.unref();  // Don't wait for daemon to exit
```

Setting `ELECTRON_RUN_AS_NODE=1` tells Electron to act as a regular Node.js runtime, perfect for a background service that doesn't need Chromium.

## The Protocol: NDJSON Over Unix Sockets

Communication between the main process and daemon uses newline-delimited JSON over Unix domain sockets:

```typescript
// Request from main process
{"id":"req-abc123","type":"createOrAttach","payload":{"sessionId":"pane-1","cols":80,"rows":24}}

// Response from daemon
{"id":"req-abc123","ok":true,"payload":{"isNew":true,"snapshot":{...},"pid":12345}}

// Event pushed to clients (stream socket)
{"type":"data","sessionId":"pane-1","data":"$ npm install\r\n"}
```

**Why Unix sockets?** They're fast (no TCP overhead), secure (file permissions), and support backpressure natively through kernel buffers.

### The Two-Socket Split

Our first protocol version used a single socket for everything. This caused a nasty problem: **head-of-line blocking**.

When a terminal produces output faster than the socket can drain, the kernel buffer fills up. Every `socket.write()` for data events would block, queuing behind them any RPC responses. The result? A user opens a new terminal, but `createOrAttach` times out because the response is stuck behind megabytes of `cat bigfile.log` output.

Protocol v2 splits communication:

```
Main Process                          Daemon
     │                                   │
     │◄────── Control Socket ──────────►│  RPC only (low latency)
     │        request/response           │
     │                                   │
     │◄────── Stream Socket ───────────►│  Events only (can backpressure)
     │        data, exit, errors         │
```

Now the stream socket can back up independently while RPC stays responsive.

## Session Lifecycle: Create, Attach, Survive, Restore

A session goes through well-defined states:

```
CREATED ──► ALIVE ──► (clients attach/detach) ──► TERMINATING ──► EXIT
```

The magic is in **attachment semantics**:

```typescript
async createOrAttach(params: CreateSessionParams) {
  // 1. Already in daemon? Just attach.
  if (daemon.hasSession(params.sessionId)) {
    return daemon.attach(params.sessionId);
  }

  // 2. Not in daemon, but history on disk? Cold restore.
  const metadata = await historyReader.readMetadata(params.sessionId);
  if (metadata && !metadata.endedAt) {
    // Unclean shutdown detected!
    return {
      isColdRestore: true,
      scrollback: await historyReader.readScrollback(),
      previousCwd: metadata.cwd,
    };
  }

  // 3. Truly new session
  return daemon.createSession(params);
}
```

### Cold Restore: Recovering from Daemon crashes

When the daemon dies (machine reboot, crash, kill -9), sessions are lost. But we still have disk history:

```
~/.superset/terminal-sessions/
└── workspace-abc/
    └── pane-123/
        ├── meta.json        # {"startedAt": ..., "cwd": "/project"}
        └── scrollback.txt   # Full terminal output
```

On next app launch, we detect unclean shutdown (no `endedAt` in metadata) and offer cold restore:

```typescript
// Session restored - scrollback shown but read-only
// User sees: "Session Restored - Press Enter to start new shell"
// Old scrollback preserved, new shell spawns in same directory
```

This gives users the best of both worlds: they see what happened before the crash, and can kinda where they left off.

## Backpressure: The Hidden Challenge

Terminals can produce output *fast*. A simple `cat /dev/urandom | base64` will flood any buffer you throw at it. Without careful backpressure handling, you get:

- Memory exhaustion (unbounded queues)
- UI freezes (blocked event loops)
- Lost data (dropped writes)

We implement **multi-level backpressure** from PTY to UI:

```
PTY stdout
    │
    ▼ (if daemon buffer full, pause subprocess reads)
PTY Subprocess internal buffer (8MB high watermark, 64MB hard limit)
    │
    ▼ (if session buffer full, pause subprocess stdout)
Daemon session buffer
    │
    ▼ (if client socket full, pause session output)
Main process stream socket
    │
    ▼ (if renderer can't keep up, events queue in main)
Renderer xterm.js
```

The PTY subprocess batches output aggressively:

```typescript
// Collect output for up to 32ms or 128KB, whichever comes first
const FLUSH_INTERVAL_MS = 32;
const MAX_BATCH_SIZE = 128 * 1024;

let batch = "";
let flushTimeout: NodeJS.Timeout | null = null;

pty.onData((data) => {
  batch += data;

  if (batch.length >= MAX_BATCH_SIZE) {
    flush();
  } else if (!flushTimeout) {
    flushTimeout = setTimeout(flush, FLUSH_INTERVAL_MS);
  }
});
```

This avoids the O(n²) string concatenation problem while maintaining ~30fps visual updates.

## The Headless Emulator: State Without a Screen

Each daemon session runs a headless xterm.js emulator. This might seem redundant—why emulate if there's no screen?

The emulator gives us:

1. **Accurate snapshots**: When a new client attaches, we serialize the *current screen state*, not just raw scrollback. The user sees exactly what was on screen, cursor position included.

2. **Terminal mode tracking**: Application mode, bracketed paste, mouse tracking—all parsed and tracked so reconnecting clients get correct state.

3. **CWD detection**: By parsing OSC escape sequences, we know the shell's current directory even when the session was created hours ago.

```typescript
// On attach, serialize current state
const snapshot = {
  snapshotAnsi: emulator.serialize(),        // Screen content as ANSI
  rehydrateSequences: emulator.getRehydrateSequences(),  // Mode restore
  cwd: emulator.getCwd(),                    // Parsed from OSC 7
  modes: emulator.getModes(),                // Cursor visible, etc.
  cols: emulator.cols,
  rows: emulator.rows,
};
```

## Lessons Learned

### 1. Protocol Versioning from Day One

When we introduced the two-socket split, existing daemons couldn't speak the new protocol. We handle this gracefully:

```typescript
// Client detects version mismatch
if (response.protocolVersion !== EXPECTED_VERSION) {
  await shutdownStaleDaemon();
  await startNewDaemon();
  return retry();
}
```

Always include version negotiation in your protocols.

### 2. React StrictMode Double-Mounts Are Real

React 18's StrictMode double-mounts components in development. Our terminal component would:

1. Mount → `createOrAttach()` → receive cold restore
2. Unmount (StrictMode cleanup)
3. Mount again → `createOrAttach()` → ???

If we re-read from disk, the cold restore flag might be gone (we wrote `endedAt`). Solution: **sticky cache**:

```typescript
// Cache cold restore until explicitly acknowledged
private coldRestoreInfo = new Map<string, ColdRestoreData>();

createOrAttach(paneId) {
  if (this.coldRestoreInfo.has(paneId)) {
    return this.coldRestoreInfo.get(paneId);  // Return cached
  }
  // ... actual logic
}

ackColdRestore(paneId) {
  this.coldRestoreInfo.delete(paneId);  // User acknowledged, clear cache
}
```

### 3. Don't Kill on Disconnect

When the Electron app closes, we *don't* kill daemon sessions:

```typescript
async cleanup() {
  // Close history writers (marks clean shutdown)
  for (const writer of this.historyWriters.values()) {
    await writer.close();
  }

  // Disconnect from daemon, but DON'T send kill
  this.disposeClient();

  // Sessions keep running for next app launch
}
```

This is the whole point of the daemon architecture. The default should be persistence, not cleanup.

### 4. Concurrency Limits Prevent Spawn Storms

Opening a workspace with 10 terminal panes would previously spawn 10 sessions simultaneously, overwhelming the daemon. We added a semaphore with priority:

```typescript
// Max 3 concurrent createOrAttach operations
private limiter = new PrioritySemaphore(3);

// Focused pane gets priority 0, background panes get 1
const priority = isFocusedPane ? 0 : 1;
await this.limiter.acquire(priority);
```

Users see their active terminal first, background tabs hydrate gradually.

## The Future: Cloud Backends

The abstraction boundary we've built isn't just about local persistence. The `TerminalRuntime` interface is provider-neutral:

```typescript
interface TerminalRuntime {
  capabilities: {
    persistent: boolean;
    coldRestore: boolean;
  };
  createOrAttach(params: CreateSessionParams): Promise<AttachResult>;
  write(sessionId: string, data: string): Promise<void>;
  // ...
}
```

Today, `LocalTerminalRuntime` wraps our daemon. Tomorrow, `CloudTerminalRuntime` could wrap SSH connections or remote tmux sessions—same interface, different backend. The renderer doesn't need to know where the terminal lives.

---

*Want to dive deeper? Check out the [Superset desktop source](https://github.com/superset-sh/superset) for the full implementation.*
