apps/docs/content/docs/customization.mdx, before:

---
title: Customization
description: Personalize Superset to your workflow
---

## Notification Sounds

Get audio notifications when agents finish or terminals exit.

Settings → Notifications → Choose a sound

## Project Colors

Color-code your projects in the sidebar for quick identification.

Click project settings → Choose a color

## Default Editor

Set which editor opens when you press ⌘O.

Settings → Editor → Select Cursor, VS Code, or other

## File Open Mode

Control how files open when clicked in the file tree or changes view.

Settings → Behavior → File open mode

- **Split pane** (default) - Opens files by splitting the current tab
- **New tab** - Opens files in a new tab

Preview pane reuse works in both modes—this setting only affects the fallback when no reusable pane exists.

## Terminal Presets

Save terminal configurations (commands, environment) as presets for quick access.

Settings → Terminal → Manage Presets

## Settings Sync

Your settings sync across devices when signed in.

Commit message:

feat(desktop): support importing custom theme config files (#1706)
* feat(desktop): support importing custom theme config files

* fix(desktop): cap custom theme import file size

* refactor(desktop): move custom theme import into theme section

* docs(desktop): add custom theme guide and link from theme settings

apps/docs/content/docs/customization.mdx, after:

---
title: Customization
description: Personalize Superset to your workflow
---

## Notification Sounds

Get audio notifications when agents finish or terminals exit.

Settings → Notifications → Choose a sound

## Project Colors

Color-code your projects in the sidebar for quick identification.

Click project settings → Choose a color

## Default Editor

Set which editor opens when you press ⌘O.

Settings → Editor → Select Cursor, VS Code, or other

## File Open Mode

Control how files open when clicked in the file tree or changes view.

Settings → Behavior → File open mode

- **Split pane** (default) - Opens files by splitting the current tab
- **New tab** - Opens files in a new tab

Preview pane reuse works in both modes—this setting only affects the fallback when no reusable pane exists.

## Terminal Presets

Save terminal configurations (commands, environment) as presets for quick access.

Settings → Terminal → Manage Presets

## Custom Themes

Download a base theme JSON, ask an agent to customize it, then import it in desktop settings.

Settings → Appearance → Theme → Download Base File / Import Theme

See full guide: [Custom Themes](/custom-themes)

## Settings Sync

Your settings sync across devices when signed in.
