apps/docs/content/docs/terminal-presets.mdx, before:

---
title: Presets
description: Save and reuse terminal configurations
---

<YouTubeVideo id="jT8AoqYTwRU" title="Superset Presets" thumbnail="/images/preset.png" />

## Overview

Presets let you quickly launch terminals with pre-configured commands. Save common workflows and apply them with a single click.

## What Presets Do

- **Custom commands for new tabs** - Define commands that run when opening a terminal
- **Working directory** - Specify where commands run in your project (e.g., `apps/web`)
- **Sequential or parallel execution** - Run commands one after another, or in split panes
- **Default preset** - Auto-apply a preset to new workspaces
- **Quick-add templates** - One-click setup for Claude, Codex, Gemini, and other agents

## Creating a Preset

Go to **Settings → Terminal** and click **Add Preset**.

Each preset has:

| Field | Description |
|-------|-------------|
| **Name** | Display name for the preset |
| **Description** | Optional description |
| **Working Directory** | Relative path in your project (leave empty for root) |
| **Commands** | One or more commands to run |
| **Mode** | Sequential (&&) or Parallel (split panes) |

## Execution Modes

**Sequential** - Commands run one after another in a single terminal, joined with `&&`:

```bash
bun install && bun dev
```

**Parallel** - Each command runs in its own split pane within a single tab. Useful for running a dev server and tests simultaneously.

## Quick-Add Templates

Pre-configured presets for popular AI agents:

- **claude** - `claude --dangerously-skip-permissions`
- **codex** - Full danger mode with high reasoning effort
- **gemini** - `gemini --yolo`
- **cursor-agent** - Cursor AI agent
- **opencode** - Open-source AI coding agent

## Default Preset

Mark a preset as default to auto-apply it when creating workspaces or opening new tabs.

**Auto-apply settings** in Settings → Terminal:
- **Apply preset on workspace creation** - Runs default preset when creating new workspaces
- **Apply preset on new tab** - Runs default preset when opening new terminal tabs/panes/splits

Both settings are enabled by default. Disable either to prevent automatic preset application in that context.

Explicit preset launches (via hotkey or menu) always work regardless of these settings.

Commit message:

Update preset launch modes to split pane/new tab with parallel default (#1715)
* Update preset launch modes to split pane/new tab with parallel default

* Open split-pane presets in active tab on click/hotkey

* Refactor preset launch flow to reuse shared execution logic

* Apply active-tab preset pattern during workspace setup

* Refactor preset launching and workspace preset application

* Normalize preset modes, add launch-plan tests, and update docs

* Refactor preset settings router read/write paths

apps/docs/content/docs/terminal-presets.mdx, after:

---
title: Presets
description: Save and reuse terminal configurations
---

<YouTubeVideo id="jT8AoqYTwRU" title="Superset Presets" thumbnail="/images/preset.png" />

## Overview

Presets let you quickly launch terminals with pre-configured commands. Save common workflows and apply them with a single click.

## What Presets Do

- **Custom commands for new tabs** - Define commands that run when opening a terminal
- **Working directory** - Specify where commands run in your project (e.g., `apps/web`)
- **Split pane or new tab launch mode** - Run commands in parallel in one tab, or one tab per command
- **Default preset** - Auto-apply a preset to new workspaces
- **Quick-add templates** - One-click setup for Claude, Codex, Gemini, and other agents

## Creating a Preset

Go to **Settings → Terminal** and click **Add Preset**.

Each preset has:

| Field | Description |
|-------|-------------|
| **Name** | Display name for the preset |
| **Description** | Optional description |
| **Working Directory** | Relative path in your project (leave empty for root) |
| **Commands** | One or more commands to run |
| **Mode** | Split Pane (parallel panes) or New Tab (parallel tabs) |

## Launch Modes

**Split Pane** - Commands run in parallel in a single tab, with one split pane per command.

**New Tab** - Commands run in parallel in separate tabs, with one tab per command.

Presets are parallel by default.

## Quick-Add Templates

Pre-configured presets for popular AI agents:

- **claude** - `claude --dangerously-skip-permissions`
- **codex** - Full danger mode with high reasoning effort
- **gemini** - `gemini --yolo`
- **cursor-agent** - Cursor AI agent
- **opencode** - Open-source AI coding agent

## Default Preset

Mark a preset as default to auto-apply it when creating workspaces or opening new tabs.

**Auto-apply settings** in Settings → Terminal:
- **Apply preset on workspace creation** - Runs default preset when creating new workspaces
- **Apply preset on new tab** - Runs default preset when opening new terminal tabs/panes/splits

Both settings are enabled by default. Disable either to prevent automatic preset application in that context.

Explicit preset launches (via hotkey or menu) always work regardless of these settings.
